[KB-270] Updated PCA sources (#191)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/related_work.tex

\subsection{Dimensionality Reduction Techniques}
Dimensionality reduction techniques such as \gls{pca} play a crucial role in managing the high-dimensional nature of \gls{libs} data.

\cite{pca_review_paper} conducted a comprehensive review of \gls{pca} applied in a \gls{libs} context. 
Their review highlighted several studies that succesfully deployed \gls{pca}.

> For example, \cite{moncayo_pca} used \gls{pca} to analyze megapixel elemental maps composed of more than 1 million LIBS spectra. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, \cite{moncayo_pca} used \gls{pca} to analyze megapixel elemental maps composed of more than 1 million \gls{libs} spectra. 
```

\gls{pca} successfully separated the contributions of various minerals, including those present in low amounts, highlighting the power of \gls{pca} in handling highly diverse samples.

> Another example is \citet{porizka_pca} used \gls{pca} to filter outliers and classify samples according to their matrix. 

Reviewer: Which matrix

This was followed by a univariate calibration of copper (\ce{Cu}) in soil samples, which resulted in a reduced bias. 

> Rather than mitigating the matrix effect, the use of PCA avoided it altogether.

Reviewer: They claim that it avoided...?

Author: I guess I could make this a stronger point. They basically said that they completely mitigated the matrix effects. I will rewrite.

\subsection{Dimensionality Reduction Techniques}
Dimensionality reduction techniques such as \gls{pca} play a crucial role in managing the high-dimensional nature of \gls{libs} data.

> \cite{pca_review_paper} conducted a comprehensive review of \gls{pca} applied in a \gls{libs} context. 
> Their review highlighted several studies that succesfully deployed \gls{pca}.
> For example, \cite{moncayo_pca} used \gls{pca} to analyze megapixel elemental maps composed of more than 1 million \gls{libs} spectra. 
> \gls{pca} successfully separated the contributions of various minerals, including those present in low amounts, highlighting the power of \gls{pca} in handling highly diverse samples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\citet{pca_review_paper} conducted a comprehensive review of \gls{pca} applied within the context of \gls{libs}.
This review highlighted numerous studies that successfully utilized \gls{pca}.
For instance, \citet{moncayo_pca} used \gls{pca} to analyze megapixel elemental maps composed of over one million \gls{libs} spectra.
The \gls{pca} approach effectively separated the contributions of various minerals, including those present in low concentrations, demonstrating its robustness in handling highly diverse samples.
```

> Another example is \citet{porizka_pca} used \gls{pca} to filter outliers and classify samples according to their matrix composition, such as \ce{Al}, \ce{Ca}, \ce{Na}, and \ce{Si}. 
> This classification was followed by a univariate calibration of copper (\ce{Cu}) in soil samples, which resulted in a reduced bias. 
> \gls{pca} was employed to discriminate individual rocks based on their overall elemental composition and they showed that \gls{pca} effectively addressed matrix effects that can significantly impact the accuracy of analytical results.
> These studies among others highlighted by \citet{pca_review_paper} demonstrate the effectiveness of \gls{pca} as a preprocessing technique in \gls{libs} analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In another example, \citet{porizka_pca} employed \gls{pca} to filter outliers and classify samples based on their matrix composition, including elements such as \ce{Al}, \ce{Ca}, \ce{Na}, and \ce{Si}. 
This classification was followed by a univariate calibration of copper (\ce{Cu}) in soil samples, resulting in reduced bias.
Additionally, \gls{pca} was used to discriminate individual rocks based on their overall elemental composition, effectively addressing matrix effects that can significantly impact the accuracy of analytical results.
These studies, among others highlighted by \cite{pca_review_paper}, underscore the effectiveness of \gls{pca} as a preprocessing technique in \gls{libs} analysis.
```

> \citet{sirven_pca_ann_plsr} investigated the influence of matrix effects on the performance of quantitative analysis of chromium (\ce{Cr}) in soil samples using \gls{libs}. 
> \gls{pca} was used to classify spectra from two different soils and to detect outliers. 
> \gls{pca} was successful in separating spectra from agricultural soil and kaolinite in the plane of the first two components. 
> Additionally, \gls{pca} was employed to identify and remove outliers from the data set, enhancing the accuracy of subsequent analyses using \gls{ann}s and \gls{plsr}.
> This study demonstrated the utility of \gls{pca} in managing matrix effects and improving the accuracy of quantitative \gls{libs} analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\citet{sirven_pca_ann_plsr} investigated the influence of matrix effects on the performance of quantitative analysis of chromium (\ce{Cr}) in soil samples using \gls{libs}.
\gls{pca} was used to classify spectra from two different soils and to detect outliers.
It successfully separated spectra from agricultural soil and kaolinite in the plane of the first two components.
Furthermore, \gls{pca} was used to identify and remove outliers from the dataset, enhancing the accuracy of subsequent analyses using \gls{ann}s and \gls{plsr}.
This study demonstrated the utility of \gls{pca} in managing matrix effects and improving the accuracy of quantitative \gls{libs} analysis.
```
